Software design.
Overview.
Let's start with theory of Design principles.
Veteran developers can make it look easy, but clean code is not written by chance.
Creating good projects comes from using sound principles, good workflows, and productive patterns
in your process.
First, let's discuss design principles.
These are the philosophies that lead to productive software development.
Benefits include faster planning, clear communication, and focus during your development.
The history of computer science is full of these design principles.
I'll go over some of the most popular.
This is an excellent opportunity for you to do your own research on any that are new to you, and to
dig in deeper on the ones that you have some familiarity with.
Let's start with the solid principles, where each letter in solid corresponds to a design principle.
The single responsibility principle is the general desire for each of your classes and structures to
do just one thing.
The open closed principle means that each class should be open for extension, but closed for modification.
With object oriented programming, you have inheritance and interfaces.
The Liskov Substitution principle discusses that any subtype should be able to be cast as the parent
type.
An interface segregation means that we should not apply more interfaces to a given type than is needed.
And finally, dependency inversion indicates that when you're dealing with high code and low code in
a system, the high level code should not depend on concrete implementations of the lower level code.
It instead should use something like interfaces to abstract that.
Some other popular concepts include.
Don't repeat yourself.
This is a reminder that we use as developers that if you find yourself copying pasting literal code
or concepts, there may be a systematic approach that helps us reuse that code more efficiently.
Keep it simple reminds us not to overcomplicate our solutions and you ain't going to need it.
Reminds us not to build tomorrow's solutions today.
In iterative development.
We want to solve the challenges before us now with sound principles and not engineer something that
is necessarily future proof.
Often we don't know what the future will hold, and designing for tomorrow is an unnecessary complication.
Just practicing the principles here and applying them into your project will automatically give you
more scalability, maintainability, and quality of life as a developer.
When we think of these software design principles in this particular section, we start from a high
theoretical level things that can be more universal across different programming platforms.
Then we'll get down into more of the nuts and bolts of how it applies, particularly within unity.
But you'll notice this difference where we talk high level and then concretely in low level.
And throughout that you can develop your own personal style of which of these principles impact your
daily work life more than others.
We'll also come to recognize some of these principles throughout the architectures that we use, and
ultimately the code that we do together in the coding sections.
That's it for now.
Thanks.